
This is a software suite for tracking more than a hundred of cells from 
4D live cell imaging data with following characteristics: (1) gray scale 
image, (2) globular-like cell shapes, (3) strong covariation of cells to 
be tracked, (4) no background image except background noise and salt-
and-pepper noise. This software suite is composed of three executables: 
convert, track, and view. The first and second software are implemented 
in C while the third is implemented in C++. OpenCV 2.4+ is used for
`convert'. OpenCV 3.3+ and freeglut are used for `view'. 

o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
|                             convert                                   |
o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
The first software `convert' converts a set of 2D images that compose 4D 
live-cell imaging data into a single file encoded as our original binary 
format. The software `convert' utilizes OpenCV 2.4.9 only for loading 
original image files, and thereby all the image file formats to which 
OpenCV 2.4.9 supports can be converted. During conversion, average 
subtraction and 3D median filter can be optionally applied for each 3D 
image in order to remove background noise and salt-and-pepper noise. We 
implemented a linear-time algorithm for computing median to make 3D 
median filter faster. 

COMPILATION:

1. Install OpenCV 2.4+.

2. Get all the source codes registered in `converter' directory of this 
   repository and move them to the current directory.

3. Modify paths to OpenCV library and header files indicated by `LIBPATH' 
   and `INCLUDE' in `makefile' if needed. 

4. Type `make' in the terminal window.

USAGE:

1. Modify the configuration file `conf-convert.txt' according to your 
   preference.

2. Type `./convert' in the terminal window.

o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
|                             track                                     |
o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
The second software 'track' is the main software for automatic detection 
and tracking of multiple cells based on the SPF algorithm from the 
converted 4D image file. For details of the algorithm, please refer to 
the article titled ``SPF-CellTracker: Multiple cell tracking with a 
spatial particle filter'' (in submission). 

COMPILATION:

1. Get all the source codes registered in `tracker' directory of this 
   repository and move them to the current directory.

2. Type `make' in the terminal window.

USAGE:

1. Modify the configuration file `conf-track.txt' according to your 
   preference.

2. Type `./track' in the terminal window.

o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
|                             view                                      |
o-----------------------------------------------------------------------o
The third software `view' is to visualize the 4D image data with a 
tracking result. This software allows us to zoom in, zoom out, and rotate 
4D image during playing 4D image data. Currently, only a binary file for 
Mac OS X is available for the software `view'. We will distribute source 
codes in the near future.  

INSTALL (Mac only):

1. Install the software `Xquartz', an implementation of X window system 
   which runs on OS X. 

2. Get the binary file `view' in `bin/Mac' directory of this repository 
   and move it to the current directory.

USAGE:

1. Put a 4D image file converted by `convert' and a trajectory file output 
   by `tracker' in the current directory.

2. Type the following command:

  ./view input-file-name trajectory-file-name  





